---
layout: post
title: Hello Vimwiki
description: 
tags: [Vimwiki, Markdown, Wiki]
comments: true
analytics: true
TNTitle: Hello-Vimwiki
---


 * [[../Blog]]

Many years ago, my preferred method of organizing my thoughts was to write everything down on paper.  I would easily fill several pages with my most valued and current ideas. Each main project received its own page.  Time passed, notes were added, pages were soiled, and, eventually, I would condense and copy the most important information to a fresh bundle of pages.  Once copied, old pages were saved for archival purposes.

Once life turned digital, this semi-regular core-dump onto paper was replaced by ever-growing, plain-text, "notes" files on my computer.  These were organized loosely into sections by project and other topics.  Unconstrained by the dimensions of a page, I had less incentive to condense and copy the important stuff.  Naturally, over time, these files became large and unweildy.  Adding a short note, for example a book recommendation, would involve laborious scrolling or searching to find the section for books.  At times I would feel as though I was editing a thesis.  Visual clues, like large type or colored headers, may have helped matters.  However, I cherished the simplicity of plain text files.

# Enter vimwiki

"Vimwiki is a collection of linked files that have their own syntax highlighting."  Vimwiki files are written in plain text using a lightweight markup language to express text styles, formatting and hyperlinks.

## Pages

A vimwiki page is a file that resides in the `~/vimwiki/` folder or one of its subfolders, and has a `.wiki` extension.  Filenames have no other restrictions; a sequence of characters of any length.  The name of a page is the filename without extension.

## Navigation

In a vimwiki page, a link to another page is created by surrounding its name with two square parentheses, like this `[[Page Two]]`.  Following the link opens the file named `Page Two.wiki`.  Links are highlighted for ease of recognition, and the parentheses are concealed for a more natural appearance, e.g. [Page Two][].

[Page Two]: ../../../about.html

A slightly more complicated syntax includes a description that is displayed instead of the name of page, as follows `[[Page Two|This is the second page]]`.  

 * other pages, local files and directories, http, etc.

## Pretty Appearance

 * lightweight-markup in plain text
 * markup highlighting 
 * embedded syntax highlighting

## Organization
### Views

 * section navigation with tagbar plugin (or folding)
 * recall files using most-recent updated (MRU) plugin
 * wiki index
 * date index

## Plain Text Simplicity & Versatility

 * web publishing
 * portability (trunknotes, gollum)




# 2012-06-17 TODO:

## 2012-06-17 ...


# Vimwiki
## Editing

## Viewing

# What

 * [Vimwiki][] is a personal wiki for Vim - a collection of linked files that have their own syntax highlighting.

# Why

 * Author rich, multi-media, html pages, using a lightweight markup
 * Avoid switching to the prompt or the window manager to search and navigate your files
 * Associative trails
 * Keep project files organized
 * Manage todo lists

# How

 * Using it is as simple as installing [Vimwiki][] and following the instructions on the project home page.
 * [Vimwiki][] has a detailed and informative help file.  Fortunately, you don't need to read the entire thing to get going.  But, as time passes, you will find that Vimwiki contains many useful features, and the help file is the place to learn about them.

# When

# Where


 * I use Vimwiki


 * Open wikilink
 * Open directory listings
 * Open local file
 * Open web page, pdf, image, etc.

 * Open mkd reference link

 * Vimwiki, RStudio, knitr & Rmarkdown
 * Vimwiki, Gollum, Github
 * Vimwiki, ...




[Vimwiki]: http://code.google.com/p/vimwiki

